conferences (#197)
andycroll/andycroll.com: _posts/2024/2024-01-31-why-go-to-a-rails-or-ruby-conference.md

---
title: "Why go to a Ruby or Rails conference?"
description: "It’ll genuinely make you live longer, amongst other things"
layout: article
category: ruby
date: 2024-01-31 19:00
image:
  base: '2024/why-go-to-a-rails-or-ruby-conference'
  alt: 'The audience at Brighton Ruby 2024'
  credit: "Clive Andrews"
  source: "https://cliveandrews.com/"
---

> Conferences have always been a big part of my career as a developer. Attending, speaking and running events—off the side of my desk—have played a massive part in my career, job prospects and personal relationships.

Reviewer: How could you?? So early on as well!

```suggestion
Conferences have always been a big part of my career as a developer. Attending, speaking, and running events—off the side of my desk—have played a massive part in my career, job prospects, and personal relationships.
```

Reviewer: Ha, my comment was only after I saw the first one!

> Enough about me. What about you? Why should you take a day (or two, or three!) off work, spend a bunch of money, get lectured from a stage and then have to talk to strangers in a strange town halfway across the country?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enough about me. What about you? Why should you take a day (or two, or three!) off work, spend a bunch of money, get lectured from a stage, and then have to talk to strangers in a strange town halfway across the country?
```

## Professional Development

> A conference is _not_ training. At most a talk can impart useful syntax, or explain a concept or help to bridge where you are to _where you could be_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A conference is _not_ training. At most a talk can impart useful syntax, or explain a concept, or help to bridge where you are to _where you could be_.
```

A conference is a great place to find out the latest and greatest thinking in your particular area of work or to be introduced to facets of your career that you haven’t had the chance to consider in the everyday, unrelenting, demand for features and bug fixes.

> Even a couple of hours of workshop delivered as part of an event’s programming, _isn’t_ training. You do sometimes get full days of classroom training attached to conferences, but those tend to be specific, full-days & smaller groups; those _are_ training!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even a couple of hours of workshops delivered as part of an event’s programming _isn’t_ training. You do sometimes get full days of classroom training attached to conferences, but those tend to be specific, full-days & smaller groups; those _are_ training!
```

Reviewer: Really?? Even those two hours aren't some form of training??

And what do you hope to get out of this paragraph?

If information isn’t being downloaded into your head, then why bother? The videos will be online soon and you can always read the documentation.

Thinking like this misses the point. You won’t watch the videos, the YouTube counts under my own conference talks would indicate those numbers round to zero.

> You’re not enabling the serendipity of being in a talk you would have avoided where an insight unpacks a problem that your team have been struggling with for months.

Reviewer: Struggling with the construction of this sentence. Are you saying "if you don't go you won't be enabling that serendipity.." or "let's face it, that 'magic' moment won't happen"?

The relent from the day-to-day is a chance to pause and reflect on your everyday struggles and use the event as a springboard to better times.

## Inspiration

I think of two kinds of inspiration.

> One is the regular kind: a talk contains the nugget of understanding you need to take a new technique, or piece of thinking, day to your day job and solve a problem that you or your team have been facing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One is the regular kind: a talk contains the nugget of understanding you need to take a new technique, or piece of thinking, back to your day job and solve a problem that you or your team have been facing.
```

> The other is more intangible, and easy to scoff about.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The other is more intangible, and easy to scoff at.
```

??

> Meeting someone, or seeing a talk, the changes the trajectory of your career. You might choose a product company, if you’ve been in agency life. You might lean hard into open source work and make that a foundation of the next phase of your career. You might meet someone who, in three years, starts a company and remembers that great meal you had and asks you to join them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Meeting someone, or seeing a talk, could change the trajectory of your career. You might choose a product company, if you’ve been in agency life. You might lean hard into open source work and make that a foundation of the next phase of your career. You might meet someone who, in three years, starts a company and remembers that great meal you had and asks you to join them.
```

> All these things are possible if, and only if, you’re in the room where it happens.

Reviewer: Cha-ching.

## Hiring

> Conferences are a great place to meet folks from other companies and many sponsors are actively trying to hire developers in the hallway track.

Reviewer: Worth saying what the 'hallway track' is?

Author: ```suggestion
Conferences are a great place to meet folks from other companies and many sponsors are actively trying to hire developers in the “hallway track”; the time and space outside the talks.
```

> Does that mean that if you send folks in your team they’re all going to leave for better places to work? No. If you are concerned that this may happen, then you have _a lot_ of work on your own organisation.

Reviewer: Yup!!

Author: ```suggestion
Does that mean that if you send folks in your team they’re all going to leave for better places to work? No. If you are concerned that this may happen, then you have _a lot_ of work to do on your own organisation.
```

> Folks move jobs frequently in the world of software. If you’re not out there extolling the virtues and benefits of working with you, if your team are not out there doing the same, how difficult will it be for you to hire your next engineer?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Folks move jobs frequently in the world of software. If you’re not out there extolling the virtues and benefits of working with you, and if your team are not out there doing the same, how difficult will it be for you to hire your next engineer? Very!
```

### Isn’t it a vacation? 

> You shouldn’t think of a conference as “time off work”. It’s not. It’s a chance for you and your team to pause, get your head up and see how you can make a difference in your day-to-day work and the wider community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You shouldn’t think of a conference as “time off work”. It’s not. It’s a chance for you and your team to pause, get your head up, and see how you can make a difference in your day-to-day work and the wider community.
```

> There’s opportunities to learn about new technologies, from other—bigger and smaller—teams doing things both the expected way and with within an esoteric approach that might chime with your approach to software.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There’s opportunities to learn about new technologies, from other—bigger and smaller—teams doing things both the expected way or perhaps with an esoteric approach that chimes with your personal software philosophy.
```

## It is pleasant

> Our jobs are increasingly remote, with our chosen career leading the charge in enabling sensible ways of working where we can work from anywhere, but that doesn’t replace the need for human connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our jobs are increasingly remote, with our chosen career leading the charge in enabling sensible ways of remote working, but that doesn’t replace the need for human connection.
```

> A programming conference can provide a place for folks on your team to enjoy time together in, in person, in a work-like environment to rebuild connections

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A programming conference can provide a place for folks on your team to enjoy time together in person, in a work-like environment, to rebuild connections.
```

> The finest people, that I’m lucky to call friends, have been made or we’ve had our bonds strengthened due to attending a conference. Either existing teammates seen outside the normal day-to-day or strangers becoming friends or future colleagues.

Reviewer: This paragraph needs tidying up!

> Even as I stand on stage and deliver a talk or MC a conference, I’m burning energy that means after my “jazz hands” I’ll have to go and hide in a cave for days afterward to recharge.

Reviewer: Hmm, seems a bit misplaced/random!

Author: Killed it.

> Many programmers self-describe as introverted, but then that’s who is at these conferences, introverts _like you_—with your same fears and worries—yet they understand you because they _are just like you_. What a lovely bunch of folks to hang out with.

Reviewer: Again, messy!

## Because you’re a human being first

> A recent episode of the Big Ideas podcast featured the American academic Robert Waldinger: the current director of the Harvard study of Adult Development. This study, begun in 1938, is the longest running investigation into the wide-ranging causes of our individual happiness, or the opposite.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A recent episode of the Big Ideas podcast featured the American academic Robert Waldinger, the current director of the Harvard study of Adult Development. This study, begun in 1938, is the longest running investigation into the wide-ranging causes of our individual happiness.
```

Or add 'and sadness'.

A major finding was the value of social connectedness.

“...the people who stayed the healthiest and lived the longest and were happier, were the people who were the most connected to others. People who saw more people in a given week; people who had warmer connections to others. Their brains stayed healthier longer, they had less cognitive decline and their brains declined more slowly as they aged.”

If “you will live, healthier, longer” doesn’t convince you to get out of you chair and meet other programmers, I don’t know what will.

> Self-interestedly I’ll recommend getting tickets to [Brighton Ruby](https://brightonruby.com) (which I run every year) and [RailsConf](https://railsconf.com), which I’m co-chairing in 2024. But there’s so many great options for events at [rubyconferences.org](https://rubyconferences.org).

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Get booking

Self-interestedly, I’d recommend getting tickets to [Brighton Ruby](https://brightonruby.com) (which I run every year) and [RailsConf](https://railsconf.com), which I’m co-chairing in 2024. But there’s so many other great options for events at [rubyconferences.org](https://rubyconferences.org).

If this post inspires you to go to a conference, let me know!
```

---
title: "Why go to a Ruby or Rails conference?"
description: "It’ll genuinely make you live longer, amongst other things"
layout: article
category: ruby

> date: 2024-01-31 19:00

Author: ```suggestion
date: 2024-02-02 09:00
```

There’s opportunities to learn about new technologies, from other—bigger and smaller—teams doing things both the expected way or perhaps with an esoteric approach that chimes with your personal software philosophy.

## Other programmers

Our jobs are increasingly remote, with our chosen career leading the charge in enabling sensible ways of remote working, but that doesn’t replace the need for human connection.

A programming conference can provide a place for folks on your team to enjoy time together in person, in a work-like environment, to rebuild connections.

The finest people, folks I’m lucky to know, have become friends at conferences. I've strengthened bonds with workmates outside the regular day-to-day and strangers have become friends or even future colleagues.

Many programmers think of themselves as introverted, you may too, the idea of a big room of other people might feel overwhelming. However, the other programmers in the room are introverts _like you_—with your same fears and worries, but also similar interests and work lives. What a lovely, familiar, friendly, bunch of folks to hang out with.

## Because you’re a human being first

> A recent episode of the Big Ideas podcast featured the American academic Robert Waldinger, the current director of the Harvard study of Adult Development. This study, begun in 1938, is the longest running investigation into the wide-ranging causes of our individual happiness.

Author: ```suggestion
A [recent episode of the Big Ideas podcast](https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/the-science-of-happiness/id164330831?i=1000638534835) featured the American academic Robert Waldinger, the current director of the Harvard study of Adult Development. This study, begun in 1938, is the longest running investigation into the wide-ranging causes of our individual happiness.
```

A major finding was the value of social connectedness.

“...the people who stayed the healthiest and lived the longest and were happier, were the people who were the most connected to others. People who saw more people in a given week; people who had warmer connections to others. Their brains stayed healthier longer, they had less cognitive decline and their brains declined more slowly as they aged.”

> If “you will live, healthier, longer” doesn’t convince you to get out of you chair and meet other programmers, I don’t know what will.

Author: ```suggestion
If “you will live, healthier, longer” doesn’t convince you to get out of your chair and meet other programmers, I don’t know what will.
```
